A courageous mouse, a fearless mouse, that means, means again, ego is very timid. One way is timid,
another way is very skeptical,
another way is very, very limited, very limited, limited. And therefore, again, bodhichitta is to
open a door, that love, joy, compassion.
This open a door to all the beings, that compassion. Why agree with it, of course? Basically we all
know, because every living being carries self,
doesn't matter whatever the size of the body they are, they can be bigger as like a hundred times
elephant.
Or they can be small as three times, probably a hundred times, of the lemurs smallest and central,
or smallest beings.
The emotion package is the same in the teaching set. Doesn't matter the body size of that, that all
have such dense emotions.
And these emotions relate with them, what, 3,000 or 5,000 or 6,000, those such as ignorance,
attachment, anger, jealous,
headed thought, and pride or arrogance, and doubt, and hesitation, so forth. As long as we have
that, there is always pain, always suffering,
mentally pain, and physically suffering pain. And therefore, the compassion must go to all the
beings as far as space.
And therefore, it is known as vastness motivation. It's vastness, it has no boundaries, and vast
ness motivation of the body to each other.
And with that beautiful compassion, beautiful love, beautiful joy, and appreciation, fearlessness,
the open status,
then if you added additional to the idea in the teaching, the beauty to understand it, then it's
beautiful. It's perfect.
It is beautiful cake. We are topping the vegetables. Frost chocolate. Beautiful cake, already it is
beautiful, delicious.
And we add this beauty to understand the nature. We're adding the beautiful frozen chocolate.
It's beautiful, delicious, from top to bottom. And that, individually, is then in the way we are
teaching known as
male vide dara, female vide daras. Male and female vide daras. All yogi and yoginis.
Yogi and yoginis, male and vide dara, male and female, female. What means vide dara?
Vide dara is a Sanskrit terminology, but it means one who holds true awareness, true awareness.
One is true awareness. True awareness is free from duality, free from the habit pattern.
And, such as Murpema Sambha, Vimalamata, Nijin, Surya, Aumanda Rama, Aulagma, Maajik Laodong, all
the 25 disciples,
those who hold up vide dara. They hold true awareness, not just hold as like we are grasping,
but maintain with skillful means and Muslim combination with all the innate strangers.
Maintain that. That is true heroing and heroess, the great bravery, great courageous one,
who defeated all negative obstacles, the root of suffering, the difficult and the trouble metals.
Release and revere the true hidden quality of what is inhabited. That is the very own practice.
For that, to bring that realization, such as this ritual ceremony, ritual object, ritual ceremony,
all is part of that display, part of that to reveal that nature. They are like tools, in a way,
instrumental
to bring this deep of realization of this awareness that we already understand.
Therefore, ritual is good, those who like to perform great with ritual, and that is what Rene Ch
ichi said.
Those who are not really prepared or not like to do, many of those great masters, yoginis who stay
in caves,
they don't have any actual rituals to many things. Because, ancient times, to get these ritual
things,
such as a bird and a doji and a damaru, you have to make a lot of effort to get that.
It's not like these days, like a massive town that you can get, because the modern is more
developed,
that's what I call the developed. More material, more developed, it's easy to get all these things,
and people have the capability to get. Ancient times, even they want, it's very difficult to get.
I think any many places must be, but not to be, because there are no patterns to do these things.
Things, and you have to do, you have to specifically ask to the smell, all those purpose to make
these things.
So it's really, they're not really making, like commercial purposes,
they just make individual items for this ask, ask. Therefore, it is quite rare,
and therefore, many times, those great yogis and yoginis who practice in hermitage,
they really don't have those, these old ritual arguments.
But they need big monasteries, definitely, they use this, because they have that,
and the teaching, imagine those things, it's good to be, to bring forth the power
and the realization of the inner God, and bring more beauty, understanding of true nature.
So therefore, then, there is power which is said.
So now again, go back to what I discussed, mentioned,
is that the post which try to withstand our beautiful motivation,
motivation of the bodhicitta, the vastness of motivation of bodhicitta,
and as well as the second motivation, is then purity, understanding, motivation.
These two are very important. It's not just important only at the beginning of our practice,
or beginning of the teachings, but that is all, this is actually our practices.
This is our beginning practices, this is our middle practices,
this is our head practices, and that is our goal, to reveal this nature.
Nature, and this nature is the nature of our self, our own being,
the true nature, Buddha nature, that's what we are going to reveal.
And with this understanding, then we go more to the post teaching what we've been discussing.
So, trying to have those, we do our motivation,
and now we go into detail, go into what we've been discussing.